index.rst, before:

.. _home:

F5 Container Integrations Documentation
=======================================

This documentation set supports the projects that comprise the F5® Container Services Integration. This product suite enables the use of BIG-IP® in containerized environments.

Release |version|
-----------------

This release introduces the following:

* **f5-marathon-lb** |f5mlb_version|: enables use of BIG-IP as an edge load balancer in a Mesos+Marathon environment (North-South traffic).
* **lightweight-proxy** |lwp_version| and **lwp-controller** |lwpc_version|: provide load balancing inside a Mesos cluster (East-West traffic).


Content Overview
----------------
* The Usage Guide provides instructions for setting up a fully functional Mesos+Marathon environment with the F5 Container Services Integration via Amazon AWS.

* The F5 Mesos Integration guide provides high-level information, as well as instructions for deploying the F5 Container Integration in your own Mesos environment.

* Each of the project READMEs contains detailed information and instructions for installation and configuration.

Contents:
---------

.. toctree::
    :titlesonly:

    Usage Guide <usage-marathon-poc.rst>
    f5-mesos-integration.rst
    f5-marathon-lb README <f5mlb/README>
    lightweight-proxy README <f5lwp/README>
    lwp-controller README <f5lwpc/README>
    Releases and Support Matrix <releases_and_versioning.rst>

Commit message:

update toctree refs to project home pages (README -> index)

index.rst, after:

.. _home:

F5 Container Integrations Documentation
=======================================

This documentation set supports the projects that comprise the F5® Container Services Integration. This product suite enables the use of BIG-IP® in containerized environments.

Release |version|
-----------------

This release introduces the following:

* **f5-marathon-lb** |f5mlb_version|: enables use of BIG-IP as an edge load balancer in a Mesos+Marathon environment (North-South traffic).
* **lightweight-proxy** |lwp_version| and **lwp-controller** |lwpc_version|: provide load balancing inside a Mesos cluster (East-West traffic).


Content Overview
----------------
* The Usage Guide provides instructions for setting up a fully functional Mesos+Marathon environment with the F5 Container Services Integration via Amazon AWS.

* The F5 Mesos Integration guide provides high-level information, as well as instructions for deploying the F5 Container Integration in your own Mesos environment.

* Each of the projects' home pages contains detailed information and instructions for installation and configuration.

Contents:
---------

.. toctree::
    :titlesonly:

    Usage Guide <usage-marathon-poc.rst>
    f5-mesos-integration.rst
    f5-marathon-lb home <f5mlb/index>
    lightweight-proxy home <f5lwp/index>
    lwp-controller home <f5lwpc/index>
    Releases and Support Matrix <releases_and_versioning.rst>
