docs/tutorials/bigip-ha.rst, before:

.. index::
   single: BIG-IP Controller
   single: BIG-IP high availability
   single: Cloud Foundry
   single: Kubernetes
   single: OpenShift
   single: Marathon

.. _manage BIG-IP HA:

How to manage BIG-IP HA pairs
=============================

The F5 Container Connectors provide platform-native integrations for BIG-IP devices from PaaS providers like Cloud Foundry, Kubernetes, Mesos, & OpenShift. The BIG-IP Controllers for these platforms translate native commands to F5 Python SDK/iControl REST calls. [#cccl]_

You can use any BIG-IP Controller to manage a BIG-IP HA active-standby pair or device group. While the platform details vary, all of the Controllers operate on the same basic principle: To provide redundancy, run one (1) Controller instance for each BIG-IP device.

**For example**:

You have one (1) active and one (1) standby BIG-IP device. You want to manage a Kubernetes Cluster in a single partition on the BIG-IP system. For your HA setup, you'd deploy two (2) |kctlr| instances - one for each BIG-IP device. To ensure Controller HA, deploy each Controller instance on a separate node in the cluster.

.. figure:: /_static/media/bigip-ha.png
   :alt: A diagram showing a BIG-IP active-standby device pair and 2 BIG-IP Controllers, running on separate nodes in a Kubernetes Cluster.

.. [#cccl] See `Introduction to F5 Common Controller Core Library <https://devcentral.f5.com/articles/introduction-to-f5-common-controller-core-library-cccl-28355>`_ on DevCentral for more information.

BIG-IP config sync
------------------

.. warning::

   F5 does not recommended using automatic configuration sync for BIG-IP devices managed by BIG-IP Controllers. The BIG-IP Controller automatically reconfigures its managed device if it discovers changes from what it knows to be the desired state.

   This means that the Controller overwrites *all manual changes*, whether made directly to the managed BIG-IP device or to a BIG-IP that automatically syncs its configuration to the managed BIG-IP device.

If you do use config sync, you should deploy one (1) |kctlr| instance to manage the active device. If you manually sync device group configurations, be sure to always sync configurations *from* the BIG-IP device managed by the |kctlr| *to* the other devices in the group. The Controller will overwrite any changes synced to its managed device from other devices in the group.

.. important::

   If you use tunnels to connect your BIG-IP HA pair to the Cluster network, you should disable config sync for tunnels. See "About configuring VXLAN tunnels on high availability BIG-IP device pairs in the `BIG-IP TMOS Tunneling and IPsec Guide <https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/bigip-tmos-tunnels-ipsec-13-0-0/2.html>`_ for more information.

Examples
--------

Cloud Foundry
`````````````

In Cloud Foundry, the |cf-long| creates a single HTTP BIG-IP virtual server by default [#cf]_. This virtual server is the entry point for all traffic coming into the cloud.

To deploy identical |cfctlr| instances for each BIG-IP device in an active-standby pair, take the steps below.

#. :ref:`Create an Application Manifest <create-application-manifest>` for each ``cf-bigip-ctlr`` instance.

#. Include the correct IP address or hostname for each BIG-IP device in each manifest.

   .. literalinclude:: /cloudfoundry/config_examples/manifest_ha-active.yaml
      :emphasize-lines: 8
      :caption: Deployment with IP address for active BIG-IP device

#. Deploy each App to the appropriate cloud.

   .. code-block:: console

      cf push -o f5networks/cf-bigip-ctlr -f manifest_ha-active.yaml

   .. code-block:: console

      cf push -o f5networks/cf-bigip-ctlr -f manifest_ha-standby.yaml


.. [#cf] See :ref:`BIG-IP Controller for Cloud Foundry <cf-home>` for more information.

Kubernetes/OpenShift
````````````````````

.. sidebar:: :fonticon:`fa fa-info-circle` Did you know?

   In most cases, OpenShift users can substitute :command:`oc` for :command:`kubectl`.

#. :ref:`Set up RBAC <k8s-rbac>` as needed.
#. :ref:`Create a Deployment <k8s-bigip-ctlr-deployment>` for each ``k8s-bigip-ctlr`` instance.
#. Provide the IP address/hostname for the active device in one Deployment, and the standby device in the other Deployment.

   .. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-bigip-ctlr_ha-active.yaml
      :emphasize-lines: 31
      :caption: Deployment with IP address for active BIG-IP device

#. Upload the Deployments to the Kubernetes/OpenShift API server.

   .. code-block:: console

      kubectl apply -f f5-k8s-bigip-ctlr_ha-active.yaml --namespace=kube-system
      deployment "k8s-bigip-ctlr-deployment" created

   .. code-block:: console

      kubectl apply -f f5-k8s-bigip-ctlr_ha-standby.yaml --namespace=kube-system
      deployment "k8s-bigip-ctlr-deployment" created

.. seealso::

   `Learn how to deploy Pods to specific Nodes in Kubernetes <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/>`_.

.. todo:: add information about using namespace-labels

Mesos
`````

#. :ref:`Set up RBAC <mesos-authentication>` as needed.
#. :ref:`Create a JSON Application file <mctlr-deploy>` for each marathon-bigip-ctlr instance.
#. Include the correct IP address or hostname for each BIG-IP device in each Deployment.

   .. literalinclude:: /marathon/config_examples/f5-marathon-bigip-ctlr_ha-active.json
      :emphasize-lines: 16

#. Deploy the Application using the `Marathon Web Interface`_ or the REST API.

   .. code-block:: console

      curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://<marathon_uri>/v2/apps -d @f5-marathon-bigip-ctlr_ha-active.json

Commit message:

add info about fdb updates and poll-interval

docs/tutorials/bigip-ha.rst, after:

.. index::
   single: BIG-IP Controller
   single: BIG-IP high availability
   single: Cloud Foundry
   single: Kubernetes
   single: OpenShift
   single: Marathon

.. _manage BIG-IP HA:

How to manage BIG-IP HA pairs
=============================

The F5 Container Connectors provide platform-native integrations for BIG-IP devices from PaaS providers like Cloud Foundry, Kubernetes, Mesos, & OpenShift. The BIG-IP Controllers for these platforms translate native commands to F5 Python SDK/iControl REST calls. [#cccl]_

You can use any BIG-IP Controller to manage a BIG-IP HA active-standby pair or device group. While the platform details vary, all of the Controllers operate on the same basic principle: To provide redundancy, run one (1) Controller instance for each BIG-IP device.

**For example**:

You have one (1) active and one (1) standby BIG-IP device. You want to manage a Kubernetes Cluster in a single partition on the BIG-IP system. For your HA setup, you'd deploy two (2) |kctlr| instances - one for each BIG-IP device. To ensure Controller HA, deploy each Controller instance on a separate node in the cluster.

.. figure:: /_static/media/bigip-ha.png
   :alt: A diagram showing a BIG-IP active-standby device pair and 2 BIG-IP Controllers, running on separate nodes in a Kubernetes Cluster.

.. [#cccl] See `Introduction to F5 Common Controller Core Library <https://devcentral.f5.com/articles/introduction-to-f5-common-controller-core-library-cccl-28355>`_ on DevCentral for more information.

BIG-IP config sync
------------------

.. warning::

   F5 does not recommended using automatic configuration sync for BIG-IP devices managed by BIG-IP Controllers. The BIG-IP Controller automatically reconfigures its managed device if it discovers changes from what it knows to be the desired state.

   This means that the Controller overwrites *all manual changes*, whether made directly to the managed BIG-IP device or to a BIG-IP that automatically syncs its configuration to the managed BIG-IP device.

If you do use config sync, you should deploy one (1) |kctlr| instance to manage the active device. If you manually sync device group configurations, be sure to always sync configurations *from* the BIG-IP device managed by the |kctlr| *to* the other devices in the group. The Controller will overwrite any changes synced to its managed device from other devices in the group.

.. important::

   If you use tunnels to connect your BIG-IP HA pair to the Cluster network, you should disable config sync for tunnels. See "About configuring VXLAN tunnels on high availability BIG-IP device pairs in the `BIG-IP TMOS Tunneling and IPsec Guide <https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/bigip-tmos-tunnels-ipsec-13-0-0/2.html>`_ for more information.

Examples
--------

Cloud Foundry
`````````````

In Cloud Foundry, the |cf-long| creates a single HTTP BIG-IP virtual server by default [#cf]_. This virtual server is the entry point for all traffic coming into the cloud.

To deploy identical |cfctlr| instances for each BIG-IP device in an active-standby pair, take the steps below.

#. :ref:`Create an Application Manifest <create-application-manifest>` for each ``cf-bigip-ctlr`` instance.

#. Include the correct IP address or hostname for each BIG-IP device in each manifest.

   .. literalinclude:: /cloudfoundry/config_examples/manifest_ha-active.yaml
      :emphasize-lines: 8
      :caption: Deployment with IP address for active BIG-IP device

#. Deploy each App to the appropriate cloud.

   .. code-block:: console

      cf push -o f5networks/cf-bigip-ctlr -f manifest_ha-active.yaml

   .. code-block:: console

      cf push -o f5networks/cf-bigip-ctlr -f manifest_ha-standby.yaml


.. [#cf] See :ref:`BIG-IP Controller for Cloud Foundry <cf-home>` for more information.

Kubernetes/OpenShift
````````````````````

.. sidebar:: :fonticon:`fa fa-info-circle` Did you know?

   In most cases, OpenShift users can substitute :command:`oc` for :command:`kubectl`.

#. :ref:`Set up RBAC <k8s-rbac>` as needed.
#. :ref:`Create a Deployment <k8s-bigip-ctlr-deployment>` for each ``k8s-bigip-ctlr`` instance.
#. Provide the IP address/hostname for the active device in one Deployment, and the standby device in the other Deployment.

   .. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-bigip-ctlr_ha-active.yaml
      :emphasize-lines: 31
      :caption: Deployment with IP address for active BIG-IP device

#. Upload the Deployments to the Kubernetes/OpenShift API server.

   .. code-block:: console

      kubectl apply -f f5-k8s-bigip-ctlr_ha-active.yaml --namespace=kube-system
      deployment "k8s-bigip-ctlr-deployment" created

   .. code-block:: console

      kubectl apply -f f5-k8s-bigip-ctlr_ha-standby.yaml --namespace=kube-system
      deployment "k8s-bigip-ctlr-deployment" created

.. seealso::

   `Learn how to deploy Pods to specific Nodes in Kubernetes <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/>`_.

.. todo:: add information about using namespace-labels

.. note::

   Using one Controller and autosync means that at failover there is a window where the FDB entries won’t be populated on the new active device (config sync does not populate FDB entries). This window will be, at minumum, the length of the poll-interval setting - the interval at which the Controller polls for Kubernetes nodes. The window can be reduced with shorter polling to the API server by reducing the poll-interval config value (5-10 seconds instead of hte default 30).

   Using two Controllers creates FDB entries on both the active and stand-by devices. This option involves a shorter delay at failover, since the standby device doesn't have to wait for the FDB updates.

 
Mesos
`````

#. :ref:`Set up RBAC <mesos-authentication>` as needed.
#. :ref:`Create a JSON Application file <mctlr-deploy>` for each marathon-bigip-ctlr instance.
#. Include the correct IP address or hostname for each BIG-IP device in each Deployment.

   .. literalinclude:: /marathon/config_examples/f5-marathon-bigip-ctlr_ha-active.json
      :emphasize-lines: 16

#. Deploy the Application using the `Marathon Web Interface`_ or the REST API.

   .. code-block:: console

      curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://<marathon_uri>/v2/apps -d @f5-marathon-bigip-ctlr_ha-active.json
