docs/kubernetes/kctlr-app-install.rst, before:

.. _install-kctlr:

Install the |kctlr-long|
========================

.. sidebar:: Docs test matrix

   We tested this documentation with:

   - ``kubernetes-v1.4.8_coreos.0``
   - ``k8s-bigip-ctlr v1.1.0``


The |kctlr-long| installs via a `Kubernetes Deployment`_.
The Deployment creates a `ReplicaSet`_ that, in turn, launches a `Pod`_ running the |kctlr| app.

Initial Setup
-------------

#. :ref:`Add a Kubernetes Secret <k8s-add-secret>` containing your BIG-IP login credentials to your Kubernetes master node.

#. `Create a new partition`_ for Kubernetes on your BIG-IP.
   The |kctlr| can not manage objects in the ``/Common`` partition.

#. `Create a Kubernetes Secret containing your Docker login credentials`_ (required if you need to pull the container image from a private Docker registry).

#. **If you're using OpenShift**: Complete the steps in :ref:`Add BIG-IP device to an OpenShift Cluster <bigip-openshift-setup>`.

.. _create-k8s-deployment:

.. important::

   You should create all |kctlr| objects in the ``kube-system`` `namespace`_, unless otherwise specified in the deployment instructions.

.. _k8s-bigip-ctlr-deployment:

Create a Deployment
-------------------

Kubernetes
``````````

Define a `Kubernetes Deployment`_ using valid JSON or YAML.

.. literalinclude:: /_static/config_examples/f5-k8s-bigip-ctlr_image-secret.yaml
   :linenos:


:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-bigip-ctlr_image-secret.yaml </_static/config_examples/f5-k8s-bigip-ctlr_image-secret.yaml>`

.. _install-kctlr-openshift:

OpenShift Origin
````````````````

Define an OpenShift Deployment using valid JSON or YAML.

.. important::

    OpenShift deployments must use the following required configuration parameters:

    - ``pool-member-type=cluster``
    - ``openshift-sdn-name=</BIG-IP-partition/BIG-IP-vxlan-tunnel>``

.. literalinclude:: /_static/config_examples/f5-k8s-bigip-ctlr_openshift-sdn.yaml
    :linenos:

:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-bigip-ctlr_openshift-sdn.yaml </_static/config_examples/f5-k8s-bigip-ctlr_openshift-sdn.yaml>`


Upload the Deployment
---------------------

Upload the Deployment to the Kubernetes or OpenShift API server with the ``kubectl create`` command.

.. code-block:: bash

   user@k8s-master:~$ kubectl create -f k8s-bigip-ctlr_image-secret.yaml --namespace=kube-system
   deployment "k8s-bigip-ctlr" created


Verify creation
---------------

When you create a Deployment, a `ReplicaSet`_ and `Pod`_ (s) launch automatically.
Use ``kubectl`` to verify all of the objects launched successfully.

.. code-block:: bash
   :emphasize-lines: 3, 7, 11

   user@k8s-master:~$ kubectl get deployments --namespace=kube-system
   NAME             DESIRED   CURRENT   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
   k8s-bigip-ctlr   1         1         1            1           1h

   user@k8s-master:~$ kubectl get replicasets --namespace=kube-system
   NAME                       DESIRED   CURRENT   AGE
   k8s-bigip-ctlr-331478340   1         1         1h

   user@k8s-master:~$ kubectl get pods --namespace=kube-system
   NAME                                  READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   k8s-bigip-ctlr-331478340-ke0h9        1/1       Running   0          1h
   kube-apiserver-172.16.1.19            1/1       Running   0          2d
   kube-controller-manager-172.16.1.19   1/1       Running   0          2d
   kube-dns-v11-2a66j                    4/4       Running   0          2d
   kube-proxy-172.16.1.19                1/1       Running   0          2d
   kube-proxy-172.16.1.21                1/1       Running   0          2d
   kube-scheduler-172.16.1.19            1/1       Running   0          2d
   kubernetes-dashboard-172.16.1.19      1/1       Running   0          2d

.. _ReplicaSet: https://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/replicasets/
.. _Pod: https://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/pods/
.. _Create a new partition: https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/tmos-implementations-12-1-0/29.html
.. _Create a Kubernetes Secret containing your Docker login credentials: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/

Commit message:

update version tested to 1.6 w/rbac
Problem:
Documentation did not include information on how to deploy the container using RBAC (k8s >= 1.6)

Solution:
- Revised `kctlr-app-install.rst` for k8s >= 1.6 and added role and binding example config.
- Revised deployment config to include service account.
- Updated docs test matrix.
- Created `kctlr-openshift-app-install.rst` and consolidated Openshift instructions into one document.

Testing:
- Manually tested added, updated and existing examples in a k8s 1.6 kubeadm deployment for both 1.1 and 1.0 cc.
- Manually tested updated and existing examples in k8s 1.4 to ensure service account addition not problematic.
- Manually tested consolidated openshift examples.

docs/kubernetes/kctlr-app-install.rst, after:

.. _install-kctlr:

Install the |kctlr-long|
========================

.. sidebar:: Docs test matrix

   We tested this documentation with:

   - ``kubernetes-v1.6.4 on Ubuntu-16.4.2``
   - ``kubernetes-v1.4.8 on CoreOS 1409.6.0``
   - ``k8s-bigip-ctlr v1.1.0``
   - ``k8s-bigip-ctlr v1.0.0``


The |kctlr-long| installs via a `Kubernetes Deployment`_.
The Deployment creates a `ReplicaSet`_ that, in turn, launches a `Pod`_ running the |kctlr| app.

.. attention::

   These instructions are for a standard Kubernetes environment. **If you are using OpenShift**: Complete the steps in :ref:`Install the BIG-IP Controller for Kubernetes in OpenShift Origin <install-kctlr-openshift>`.

Initial Setup
-------------

#. :ref:`Add a Kubernetes Secret <k8s-add-secret>` containing your BIG-IP login credentials to your Kubernetes master node.

#. `Create a new partition`_ for Kubernetes on your BIG-IP.
   The |kctlr| can not manage objects in the ``/Common`` partition.

#. `Create a Kubernetes Secret containing your Docker login credentials`_ (required if you need to pull the container image from a private Docker registry).

.. _create-k8s-deployment:

.. important::

   You should create all |kctlr| objects in the ``kube-system`` `namespace`_, unless otherwise specified in the deployment instructions.

.. _k8s-bigip-ctlr-deployment:

Create a Deployment
-------------------

#. Define a `Kubernetes Deployment`_ using valid JSON or YAML.

The deployment example below also creates a `ServiceAccount`_ for the controller to use.


:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-bigip-ctlr_image-secret.yaml </_static/config_examples/f5-k8s-bigip-ctlr_image-secret.yaml>`


.. literalinclude:: /_static/config_examples/f5-k8s-bigip-ctlr_image-secret.yaml
   :linenos:
   :caption: Example Kubernetes Manifest
   :emphasize-lines: 2,50

2. Add the `cluster role <https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/authorization/rbac/#role-and-clusterrole>`_ and `cluster role binding <https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/authorization/rbac/#rolebinding-and-clusterrolebinding>`_ required by the |kctlr| to monitor and update the resources it manages. 


.. note::

   - If your cluster is not using `Role Based Access Control <https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/authorization/rbac/>`_ the cluster role and cluster role binding are not needed.
   - You can restrict the permissions granted in the cluster role as needed for your deployment; those shown below are the supported set.


.. literalinclude:: /_static/config_examples/f5-k8s-sample-rbac.yaml
   :linenos:
   :caption: Example ``ClusterRole`` and ``ClusterRoleBinding``

:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-sample-rbac.yaml </_static/config_examples/f5-k8s-sample-rbac.yaml>`


Upload the Deployment
---------------------

Upload the Deployment to the Kubernetes or OpenShift API server with the ``kubectl apply`` command.

.. code-block:: bash

   user@k8s-master:~$ kubectl apply -f k8s-bigip-ctlr_image-secret.yaml --namespace=kube-system
   deployment "k8s-bigip-ctlr" created


Verify creation
---------------

When you create a Deployment, a `ReplicaSet`_ and `Pod`_ (s) launch automatically.
Use ``kubectl`` to verify all of the objects launched successfully.

.. code-block:: bash
   :emphasize-lines: 3, 7, 11

   user@k8s-master:~$ kubectl get deployments --namespace=kube-system
   NAME             DESIRED   CURRENT   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
   k8s-bigip-ctlr   1         1         1            1           1h

   user@k8s-master:~$ kubectl get replicasets --namespace=kube-system
   NAME                       DESIRED   CURRENT   AGE
   k8s-bigip-ctlr-331478340   1         1         1h

   user@k8s-master:~$ kubectl get pods --namespace=kube-system
   NAME                                  READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   k8s-bigip-ctlr-331478340-ke0h9        1/1       Running   0          1h
   kube-apiserver-172.16.1.19            1/1       Running   0          2d
   kube-controller-manager-172.16.1.19   1/1       Running   0          2d
   kube-dns-v11-2a66j                    4/4       Running   0          2d
   kube-proxy-172.16.1.19                1/1       Running   0          2d
   kube-proxy-172.16.1.21                1/1       Running   0          2d
   kube-scheduler-172.16.1.19            1/1       Running   0          2d
   kubernetes-dashboard-172.16.1.19      1/1       Running   0          2d

.. _ReplicaSet: https://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/replicasets/
.. _Pod: https://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/pods/
.. _ServiceAccount: https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/service-accounts-admin/
.. _Create a new partition: https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/tmos-implementations-12-1-0/29.html
.. _Create a Kubernetes Secret containing your Docker login credentials: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/
