docs/kubernetes/kctlr-ingress.rst, before:

.. index::
   single: Kubernetes; Ingress
   single: OpenShift; Ingress
   single: BIG-IP Controller; Ingress

.. _kctlr-ingress-config:

Expose Services to External Traffic using Ingresses
===================================================

.. include:: /_static/reuse/k8s-version-added-1_1.rst

.. change title to "Use BIG-IP as an Edge Load Balancer "??

You can use the |kctlr-long| and OpenShift to expose Services to external traffic on BIG-IP virtual servers. The |kctlr| has a set of `supported Ingress annotations`_ that allow you to define the objects to create on the BIG-IP system.

The |kctlr| supports four (4) types of Kubernetes `Ingress Resource`_:

- :ref:`single service`,
- :ref:`simple fanout`,
- :ref:`name-based virtual hosting`, --OR--
- :ref:`ingress-TLS`.


.. attention::

   The |kctlr| creates one (1) BIG-IP virtual server per Ingress resource. If the Ingress resource incorporates multiple Services, the |kctlr| creates a pool for each Service.

\

.. table:: Tasks

   =======  ===================================================================
   Step     Description
   =======  ===================================================================
   1.       :ref:`Create a BIG-IP Self IP address <ingress self IP>` for the
            virtual server.
   2.       :ref:`create k8s ingress`.
   3.       :ref:`add health monitor to ingress`.
   4.       :ref:`deploy ingress resource`.
   5.       :ref:`verify-ingress-vs-created`.
   =======  ===================================================================


.. _ingress self IP:

Initial Setup
-------------

#. Create a BIG-IP Self IP address.

   Allocate a `Self IP address`_ from the external network on the BIG-IP system. This is the IP address you should assign to the Ingress' virtual server.

.. todo:: add instructions for creating Self IP on BIG-IP; reuse? or link to in VE public cloud docs?


.. _ingress-quick-start:

Quick Start
-----------

You can add the `supported Ingress annotations`_ to any existing Ingress resource using :command:`kubectl annotate` or :command:`oc annotate`.
At minimum, define the following properties:

- :code:`virtual-server.f5.com/ip`
- :code:`virtual-server.f5.com/partition`

.. hint::

   In Kubernetes/OpenShift, the default for the :code:`ingress.class` property is unset. The |kctlr| automatically manages any Ingress resources for which this property is unset.

   To avoid conflicts with other Ingress controllers, set the :code:`ingress.class` property to "f5", as shown below:

   :code:`kubernetes.io/ingress.class="f5"`

   Specify a different value for Ingress resources that other controllers should manage. The |kctlr| ignores Ingress resources with any :code:`ingress.class` other than "f5".


Kubernetes
``````````

.. code-block:: console

   kubectl annotate ingress myIngress virtual-server.f5.com/ip="1.2.3.4"
   kubectl annotate ingress myIngress virtual-server.f5.com/partition="k8s"
                                      virtual-server.f5.com/balance="round-robin"
                                      virtual-server.f5.com/http-port="80"
                                      virtual-server.f5.com/health='[{"path": "svc1.bar.com/foo", "send": "HTTP GET /health/foo", "interval": 5, "timeout": 10}]'
                                      ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-redirect="true"
                                      ingress.kubernetes.io/allow-http="false"
                                      kubernetes.io/ingress.class="f5"


OpenShift
`````````

.. code-block:: console

   oc annotate ingress myIngress virtual-server.f5.com/ip="1.2.3.4"
   oc annotate ingress myIngress virtual-server.f5.com/partition="openshift"
                                 virtual-server.f5.com/balance="round-robin"
                                 virtual-server.f5.com/http-port="80"
                                 virtual-server.f5.com/health='[{"path": "svc1.bar.com/foo", "send": "HTTP GET /health/foo", "interval": 5, "timeout": 10}]'
                                 ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-redirect="true"
                                 ingress.kubernetes.io/allow-http="false"
                                 kubernetes.io/ingress.class="f5"


.. _create k8s ingress:

Create an Ingress Resource with the F5 virtual-server annotation
----------------------------------------------------------------

Define the `supported Ingress annotations`_ in a Kubernetes `Ingress Resource`_ using valid JSON.


.. _single service:

Single Service
``````````````

A :dfn:`Single Service` Ingress creates a BIG-IP virtual server and server pool for a single Kubernetes Service.

.. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-single-ingress.yaml
   :linenos:
   :emphasize-lines: 6-10

:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-single-ingress.yaml </kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-single-ingress.yaml>`

.. _simple fanout:

Simple Fanout
`````````````

A :dfn:`Simple Fanout` Ingress creates a BIG-IP virtual server and pools for a group of Kubernetes Services (one pool per Service).

.. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-fanout.yaml
   :linenos:
   :emphasize-lines: 7-12

:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-ingress-fanout.yaml </kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-fanout.yaml>`

.. _name-based virtual hosting:

Name-based virtual hosting
``````````````````````````

A :dfn:`Name-based virtual hosting` ingress creates the following BIG-IP objects:

- One (1) virtual server with one (1) pool for each Service.
- Local traffic policies that route requests to specific pools based on host name and path.

.. tip::

   If you don't specify any hosts or paths, the BIG-IP device will proxy traffic for all hosts/paths for the Service specified in the :code:`backend` section of the virtual-server annotation.

\

.. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-virtual-hosting.yaml
   :linenos:
   :caption: Specific hosts
   :emphasize-lines: 6-14, 18, 27

:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-ingress-virtual-hosting.yaml </kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-virtual-hosting.yaml>`

.. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-virtual-hosting_all.yaml
   :linenos:
   :caption: All hosts
   :emphasize-lines: 6-14, 17

:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-ingress-virtual-hosting_all.yaml </kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-virtual-hosting_all.yaml>`

.. _ingress-TLS:

TLS
```

You can secure an Ingress using :ref:`Secrets <k8s-ingress-secrets>` or :ref:`BIG-IP SSL profiles <k8s-ingress-bigip-ssl>`.

#. Specify the SSL profile(s) or the Secret containing the cert and key in the :code:`spec.tls` section of the Ingress resource.
#. Add the :code:`ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-redirect` annotation (**OPTIONAL**; defaults to :code:`"true"`).
#. Add the :code:`ingress.kubernetes.io/allow-http` annotation (**OPTIONAL**; defaults to :code:`"false"`).

.. note::

   - You can specify one (1) or more SSL profiles in your Ingress resource.
   - If you specify a :code:`spec.tls` section without providing the TLS Ingress properties,the BIG-IP device uses local traffic policies to redirect HTTP requests to HTTPS.

\

.. seealso::

   Refer to the `Kubernetes TLS Ingress documentation <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#tls>`_ for details regarding supported port(s) and termination.


.. _k8s-ingress-bigip-ssl:

BIG-IP SSL profiles
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-tls.yaml
   :caption: TLS Example
   :linenos:
   :emphasize-lines: 11-14, 16-19

:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-ingress-tls.yaml </kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-tls.yaml>`

.. _k8s-ingress-secrets:

Kubernetes Secrets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-tls-secret.yaml
      :caption: TLS Example
      :linenos:
      :emphasize-lines: 16-18

:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-ingress-tls-secret.yaml </kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-tls-secret.yaml>`

.. _add health monitor to ingress:

Create a BIG-IP Health Monitor for an Ingress
---------------------------------------------

#. Add the :code:`virtual-server.f5.com/health` annotation to your Ingress resource.

   .. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-health-monitor.yaml
      :caption: Health Monitor Example
      :linenos:
      :emphasize-lines: 9-22


.. _deploy ingress resource:

Upload the Ingress to the API server
------------------------------------

Use :command:`kubectl create` to upload the Ingress Resource to the Kubernetes API server.

.. code-block:: console

   kubectl create ingress -f <filename>.yaml
   Ingress "myIngress" created

.. _verify-ingress-vs-created:

Verify creation of BIG-IP objects
---------------------------------

You can use TMOS or the BIG-IP configuration utility to verify that the |kctlr| created the requested BIG-IP objects for your Ingress.

To verify using the BIG-IP configuration utility:

#. Log in to the configuration utility at the management IP address (for example: :code:`https://10.190.25.225/tmui/login.jsp?`).
#. Select the correct partition from the :guilabel:`Partition` drop-down menu.
#. Go to :menuselection:`Local Traffic --> Virtual Servers` to view all virtual servers, pools, and pool members.
#. Go to :menuselection:`Local Traffic --> Policies` to view any new policies.

See the `TMSH Reference Guide`_ (PDF) for the relevant :command:`tmsh ltm` commands.


.. What's Next?
   ------------
   -- add links
   -- to new Ingress use-case
   -- solution docs here

.. _TMSH Reference Guide: https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/bigip-tmsh-reference-12-0-0.html
.. _BIG-IP server pool: https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-basics-13-0-0/4.html
.. _Host header: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7230#section-5.4
.. _Kubernetes documentation: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#name-based-virtual-hosting
.. _TLS ingress: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#tls
.. _Self IP address: https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/tmos-routing-administration-13-0-0/5.html#guid-52e1f1d8-9a6b-48cc-acfa-07745b757f07

Commit message:

Fixes: #300
- update schema table and move to releases and versioning page
- code review from @sjberman on PR #297

fix grammar failure

Fix build errors

code review

docs/kubernetes/kctlr-ingress.rst, after:

.. index::
   single: Kubernetes; Ingress
   single: OpenShift; Ingress
   single: BIG-IP Controller; Ingress

.. _kctlr-ingress-config:

Expose Services to External Traffic using Ingresses
===================================================

.. include:: /_static/reuse/k8s-version-added-1_1.rst

.. change title to "Use BIG-IP as an Edge Load Balancer "??

You can use the |kctlr-long| and OpenShift to expose Services to external traffic on BIG-IP virtual servers. The |kctlr| has a set of `supported Ingress annotations`_ that allow you to define the objects to create on the BIG-IP system.

The |kctlr| supports four (4) types of Kubernetes `Ingress Resource`_:

- :ref:`single service`,
- :ref:`simple fanout`,
- :ref:`name-based virtual hosting`, --OR--
- :ref:`ingress-TLS`.


.. attention::

   The |kctlr| creates one (1) BIG-IP virtual server per Ingress resource. If the Ingress resource incorporates multiple Services, the |kctlr| creates a pool for each Service.

   If you set setting :code:`allowHttp` or :code:`sslRedirect` to "True", the Controller creates two (2) virtual servers.

\

.. table:: Tasks

   =======  ===================================================================
   Step     Description
   =======  ===================================================================
   1.       :ref:`Create a BIG-IP Self IP address <ingress self IP>` for the
            virtual server.
   2.       :ref:`create k8s ingress`.
   3.       :ref:`add health monitor to ingress`.
   4.       :ref:`deploy ingress resource`.
   5.       :ref:`verify-ingress-vs-created`.
   =======  ===================================================================


.. _ingress self IP:

Initial Setup
-------------

#. Create a BIG-IP Self IP address.

   Allocate a `Self IP address`_ from the external network on the BIG-IP system. This is the IP address you should assign to the Ingress' virtual server.

.. todo:: add instructions for creating Self IP on BIG-IP; reuse? or link to in VE public cloud docs?


.. _ingress-quick-start:

Quick Start
-----------

You can add the `supported Ingress annotations`_ to any existing Ingress resource using :command:`kubectl annotate` or :command:`oc annotate`.
At minimum, define the following properties:

- :code:`virtual-server.f5.com/ip`
- :code:`virtual-server.f5.com/partition`

.. hint::

   In Kubernetes/OpenShift, the default for the :code:`ingress.class` property is unset. The |kctlr| automatically manages any Ingress resources for which this property is unset.

   To avoid conflicts with other Ingress controllers, set the :code:`ingress.class` property to "f5", as shown below:

   :code:`kubernetes.io/ingress.class="f5"`

   Specify a different value for Ingress resources that other controllers should manage. The |kctlr| ignores Ingress resources with any :code:`ingress.class` other than "f5".


Kubernetes
``````````

.. code-block:: console

   kubectl annotate ingress myIngress virtual-server.f5.com/ip="1.2.3.4"
   kubectl annotate ingress myIngress virtual-server.f5.com/partition="k8s"
                                      virtual-server.f5.com/balance="round-robin"
                                      virtual-server.f5.com/http-port="80"
                                      virtual-server.f5.com/health='[{"path": "svc1.bar.com/foo", "send": "HTTP GET /health/foo", "interval": 5, "timeout": 10}]'
                                      ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-redirect="true"
                                      ingress.kubernetes.io/allow-http="false"
                                      kubernetes.io/ingress.class="f5"


OpenShift
`````````

.. code-block:: console

   oc annotate ingress myIngress virtual-server.f5.com/ip="1.2.3.4"
   oc annotate ingress myIngress virtual-server.f5.com/partition="openshift"
                                 virtual-server.f5.com/balance="round-robin"
                                 virtual-server.f5.com/http-port="80"
                                 virtual-server.f5.com/health='[{"path": "svc1.bar.com/foo", "send": "HTTP GET /health/foo", "interval": 5, "timeout": 10}]'
                                 ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-redirect="true"
                                 ingress.kubernetes.io/allow-http="false"
                                 kubernetes.io/ingress.class="f5"


.. _create k8s ingress:

Create an Ingress Resource with the F5 virtual-server annotation
----------------------------------------------------------------

Define the `supported Ingress annotations`_ in a Kubernetes `Ingress Resource`_ using valid JSON.


.. _single service:

Single Service
``````````````

A :dfn:`Single Service` Ingress creates a BIG-IP virtual server and server pool for a single Kubernetes Service.

.. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-single-ingress.yaml
   :linenos:
   :emphasize-lines: 6-10

:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-single-ingress.yaml </kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-single-ingress.yaml>`

.. _simple fanout:

Simple Fanout
`````````````

A :dfn:`Simple Fanout` Ingress creates a BIG-IP virtual server and pools for a group of Kubernetes Services (one pool per Service).

.. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-fanout.yaml
   :linenos:
   :emphasize-lines: 7-12

:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-ingress-fanout.yaml </kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-fanout.yaml>`

.. _name-based virtual hosting:

Name-based virtual hosting
``````````````````````````

A :dfn:`Name-based virtual hosting` ingress creates the following BIG-IP objects:

- One (1) virtual server with one (1) pool for each Service.
- Local traffic policies that route requests to specific pools based on host name and path.

.. tip::

   If you don't specify any hosts or paths, the BIG-IP device will proxy traffic for all hosts/paths for the Service specified in the :code:`backend` section of the virtual-server annotation.

\

.. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-virtual-hosting.yaml
   :linenos:
   :caption: Specific hosts
   :emphasize-lines: 6-14, 18, 27

:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-ingress-virtual-hosting.yaml </kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-virtual-hosting.yaml>`

.. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-virtual-hosting_all.yaml
   :linenos:
   :caption: All hosts
   :emphasize-lines: 6-14, 17

:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-ingress-virtual-hosting_all.yaml </kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-virtual-hosting_all.yaml>`

.. _ingress-TLS:

TLS
```

You can secure an Ingress using :ref:`Secrets <k8s-ingress-secrets>` or :ref:`BIG-IP SSL profiles <k8s-ingress-bigip-ssl>`.

#. Specify the SSL profile(s) or the Secret containing the cert and key in the :code:`spec.tls` section of the Ingress resource.
#. Add the :code:`ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-redirect` annotation (**OPTIONAL**; defaults to :code:`"true"`).
#. Add the :code:`ingress.kubernetes.io/allow-http` annotation (**OPTIONAL**; defaults to :code:`"false"`).

.. note::

   - You can specify one (1) or more SSL profiles in your Ingress resource.
   - If you specify a :code:`spec.tls` section without providing the TLS Ingress properties,the BIG-IP device uses local traffic policies to redirect HTTP requests to HTTPS.

\

.. seealso::

   Refer to the `Kubernetes TLS Ingress documentation <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#tls>`_ for details regarding supported port(s) and termination.


.. _k8s-ingress-bigip-ssl:

BIG-IP SSL profiles
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-tls.yaml
   :caption: TLS Example
   :linenos:
   :emphasize-lines: 11-14, 16-19

:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-ingress-tls.yaml </kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-tls.yaml>`

.. _k8s-ingress-secrets:

Kubernetes Secrets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-tls-secret.yaml
      :caption: TLS Example
      :linenos:
      :emphasize-lines: 16-18

:fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-k8s-ingress-tls-secret.yaml </kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-tls-secret.yaml>`

.. _add health monitor to ingress:

Create a BIG-IP Health Monitor for an Ingress
---------------------------------------------

#. Add the :code:`virtual-server.f5.com/health` annotation to your Ingress resource.

   .. literalinclude:: /kubernetes/config_examples/f5-k8s-ingress-health-monitor.yaml
      :caption: Health Monitor Example
      :linenos:
      :emphasize-lines: 9-22


.. _deploy ingress resource:

Upload the Ingress to the API server
------------------------------------

Use :command:`kubectl create` to upload the Ingress Resource to the Kubernetes API server.

.. code-block:: console

   kubectl create ingress -f <filename>.yaml
   Ingress "myIngress" created

.. _verify-ingress-vs-created:

Verify creation of BIG-IP objects
---------------------------------

You can use TMOS or the BIG-IP configuration utility to verify that the |kctlr| created the requested BIG-IP objects for your Ingress.

To verify using the BIG-IP configuration utility:

#. Log in to the configuration utility at the management IP address (for example: :code:`https://10.190.25.225/tmui/login.jsp?`).
#. Select the correct partition from the :guilabel:`Partition` drop-down menu.
#. Go to :menuselection:`Local Traffic --> Virtual Servers` to view all virtual servers, pools, and pool members.
#. Go to :menuselection:`Local Traffic --> Policies` to view any new policies.

See the `TMSH Reference Guide`_ (PDF) for the relevant :command:`tmsh ltm` commands.


.. What's Next?
   ------------
   -- add links
   -- to new Ingress use-case
   -- solution docs here

.. _TMSH Reference Guide: https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/bigip-tmsh-reference-12-0-0.html
.. _BIG-IP server pool: https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-basics-13-0-0/4.html
.. _Host header: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7230#section-5.4
.. _Kubernetes documentation: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#name-based-virtual-hosting
.. _TLS ingress: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#tls
.. _Self IP address: https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/tmos-routing-administration-13-0-0/5.html#guid-52e1f1d8-9a6b-48cc-acfa-07745b757f07
