docs/openshift/kctlr-use-bigip-openshift.rst, before:

.. _bigip-openshift-setup:

How to add your BIG-IP device to an OpenShift Cluster
=====================================================

.. sidebar:: Docs test matrix

   We tested this documentation with:

   - BIG-IP v12.1.1
   - OpenShift Origin v1.4

Tasks
-----

Complete the following tasks to add a BIG-IP device to an `OpenShift`_ cluster network.

===== ==================================================================================
Step  Task
===== ==================================================================================
1.    :ref:`Create a host subnet <k8s-openshift-hostsubnet>` in your OpenShift cluster.
----- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.    :ref:`Create a VXLAN tunnel <k8s-openshift-vxlan-setup>` on the BIG-IP device.
----- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3.    :ref:`Assign an overlay address <k8s-openshift-assign-ip>` from the subnet to a
      BIG-IP `Self IP address`_.
===== ==================================================================================

\

.. tip::

   The examples provided here deploy the |kctlr| to the 'default' namespace and assign it a Service Account named 'bigip-ctlr'.

.. _k8s-openshift-hostsubnet:

Create a new OpenShift HostSubnet
---------------------------------

#. Define a HostSubnet using valid JSON or YAML.

   .. important::

      You must include the "annotation" section shown in the example below.
      The VNID ``0`` grants the BIG-IP device access to all OpenShift projects.



   .. literalinclude:: /_static/config_examples/f5-kctlr-openshift-hostsubnet.yaml
      :linenos:
      :emphasize-lines: 5-7, 9, 13

   :fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-kctlr-openshift-hostsubnet.yaml </_static/config_examples/f5-kctlr-openshift-hostsubnet.yaml>`

   .. code-block:: console

      user@openshift:~$ oc create -f f5-kctlr-openshift-hostsubnet.yaml

#. Verify creation of the HostSubnet.

   .. code-block:: console
      :emphasize-lines: 3

      $ oc get hostsubnet
      NAME                  HOST                  HOST IP         SUBNET
      f5-server             f5-server             172.16.1.28     10.129.2.0/23
      master.internal.net   master.internal.net   172.16.1.10     10.129.0.0/23
      node1.internal.net    node1.internal.net    172.16.1.24     10.130.0.0/23
      node2.internal.net    node2.internal.net    172.16.1.25     10.128.0.0/23

.. _k8s-openshift-vxlan-setup:

Create a BIG-IP VXLAN tunnel
----------------------------

#. Create a new BIG-IP VXLAN profile using multi-point flooding.

   .. code-block:: console

      admin@BIG-IP(cfg-sync Standalone)(Active)(/Common)(tmos)$ create net tunnels vxlan vxlan-mp flooding-type multipoint

#. Verify creation of the VXLAN profile.

   .. code-block:: console

      admin@BIG-IP(cfg-sync Standalone)(Active)(/Common)(tmos)$ list net tunnels vxlan vxlan-mp


#. Create a new BIG-IP VXLAN tunnel.

   - Use the OpenShift HostSubnet's ``hostIP`` address as the VXLAN ``local-address`` (the BIG-IP VTEP).
   - Set the ``key`` to ``0`` to grant the BIG-IP device access to all OpenShift projects and subnets.
   - Use the OpenShift HostSubnet's ``hostIP`` address as the VXLAN ``local-address`` (the VTEP).
   - The ``key`` must be ``0`` if you want to give the BIG-IP access to all OpenShift subnets.

   .. code-block:: console

      admin@BIG-IP(cfg-sync Standalone)(Active)(/Common)(tmos)$ create net tunnels tunnel openshift_vxlan key 0 profile vxlan-mp local-address 172.16.1.28

#. Verify creation of the VXLAN tunnel.

   .. code-block:: console

      admin@BIG-IP(cfg-sync Standalone)(Active)(/Common)(tmos)$ list net tunnels tunnel openshift_vxlan


.. _k8s-openshift-assign-ip:

Add the BIG-IP device to the OpenShift overlay network
------------------------------------------------------

#. Create a BIG-IP self IP address.

   - Use an address in the range defined in the :ref:`HostSubnet <k8s-openshift-hostsubnet>` allocated earlier.
     **This ensures that all VXLAN traffic is correctly routed via the** :code:`openshift_vxlan` **tunnel.** [#ossdn]_
   - Assign asubnet mask that matches that of the OpenShift SDN cluster network. In OpenShift Origin 1.4, for example, the default is ``/14``.
   - If you don't specify a traffic group, the self IP uses the BIG-IP system's default.

   .. code-block:: console

      admin@BIG-IP(cfg-sync Standalone)(Active)(/Common)(tmos)$ create net self 10.129.2.10/14 allow-service all vlan openshift_vxlan


Next Steps
----------

- :ref:`Install the F5 BIG-IP Controller in Openshift <install-kctlr-openshift>`
- :ref:`Configure the F5 BIG-IP Controller for use in OpenShift <kctlr-configure-openshift>`

.. rubric:: Footnotes
.. [#ossdn] See the `OpenShift SDN documentation <https://docs.openshift.org/latest/architecture/additional_concepts/sdn.html#sdn-design-on-masters>`_.

.. _OpenShift: https://www.openshift.org/
.. _Create an OpenShift service account: https://docs.openshift.org/latest/admin_guide/service_accounts.html
.. _VXLAN profile:
.. _Self IP address: https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/tmos-routing-administration-12-1-1/5.html
.. _cluster role binding:
.. _cluster role: https://docs.openshift.org/latest/architecture/additional_concepts/authorization.html

Commit message:

Documentation for OpenShift Route configuration
Problem: Need additional documentation on how to configure the different Routes
for the controller to manage in OpenShift. Documentation should include ssl profiles
and health monitor information.

Solution: Documentation added with Route config examples. The format of the document mimics
the Ingress documentation for Kubernetes. Also added documentation for ssl profile configuration and
health monitor configuration.

Fixes: N/A

Problem: The OpenShift router documentation added for k8s-bigip-ctlr v1.3 requires editing.

Analysis:
I did a light edit of the content for clarity, style, & syntax. I also updated the config examples to match those provided in the product repo, added the new route docs to the master TOC file, and updated the "replace f5 router" doc to reference the new "manage routes" doc.

Unit/Robot tests:

docs/openshift/kctlr-use-bigip-openshift.rst, after:

.. _bigip-openshift-setup:

How to add your BIG-IP device to an OpenShift Cluster
=====================================================

.. sidebar:: Docs test matrix

   We tested this documentation with:

   - BIG-IP v12.1.1
   - OpenShift Origin v1.4

Tasks
-----

Complete the following tasks to add a BIG-IP device to an `OpenShift`_ cluster network.

===== ==================================================================================
Step  Task
===== ==================================================================================
1.    :ref:`Create a host subnet <k8s-openshift-hostsubnet>` in your OpenShift cluster.
----- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.    :ref:`Create a VXLAN tunnel <k8s-openshift-vxlan-setup>` on the BIG-IP device.
----- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3.    :ref:`Assign an overlay address <k8s-openshift-assign-ip>` from the subnet to a
      BIG-IP `Self IP address`_.
===== ==================================================================================

\

.. tip::

   The examples provided here deploy the |kctlr| to the 'default' namespace and assign it a Service Account named 'bigip-ctlr'.

.. _k8s-openshift-hostsubnet:

Create a new OpenShift HostSubnet
---------------------------------

#. Define a HostSubnet using valid JSON or YAML.

   .. important::

      You must include the "annotation" section shown in the example below.
      The VNID ``0`` grants the BIG-IP device access to all OpenShift projects.


   .. literalinclude:: /_static/config_examples/f5-kctlr-openshift-hostsubnet.yaml
      :linenos:
      :emphasize-lines: 5-7, 9, 13

   :fonticon:`fa fa-download` :download:`f5-kctlr-openshift-hostsubnet.yaml </_static/config_examples/f5-kctlr-openshift-hostsubnet.yaml>`

   .. code-block:: console

      user@openshift:~$ oc create -f f5-kctlr-openshift-hostsubnet.yaml

#. Verify creation of the HostSubnet.

   .. code-block:: console
      :emphasize-lines: 3

      $ oc get hostsubnet
      NAME                  HOST                  HOST IP         SUBNET
      f5-server             f5-server             172.16.1.28     10.129.2.0/23
      master.internal.net   master.internal.net   172.16.1.10     10.129.0.0/23
      node1.internal.net    node1.internal.net    172.16.1.24     10.130.0.0/23
      node2.internal.net    node2.internal.net    172.16.1.25     10.128.0.0/23

.. _k8s-openshift-vxlan-setup:

Create a BIG-IP VXLAN tunnel
----------------------------

#. Create a new BIG-IP VXLAN profile using multi-point flooding.

   .. code-block:: console

      admin@BIG-IP(cfg-sync Standalone)(Active)(/Common)(tmos)$ create net tunnels vxlan vxlan-mp flooding-type multipoint

#. Verify creation of the VXLAN profile.

   .. code-block:: console

      admin@BIG-IP(cfg-sync Standalone)(Active)(/Common)(tmos)$ list net tunnels vxlan vxlan-mp


#. Create a new BIG-IP VXLAN tunnel.

   - Use the OpenShift HostSubnet's ``hostIP`` address as the VXLAN ``local-address`` (the BIG-IP VTEP).
   - Set the ``key`` to ``0`` to grant the BIG-IP device access to all OpenShift projects and subnets.

   .. code-block:: console

      admin@BIG-IP(cfg-sync Standalone)(Active)(/Common)(tmos)$ create net tunnels tunnel openshift_vxlan key 0 profile vxlan-mp local-address 172.16.1.28

#. Verify creation of the VXLAN tunnel.

   .. code-block:: console

      admin@BIG-IP(cfg-sync Standalone)(Active)(/Common)(tmos)$ list net tunnels tunnel openshift_vxlan


.. _k8s-openshift-assign-ip:

Add the BIG-IP device to the OpenShift overlay network
------------------------------------------------------

#. Create a BIG-IP self IP address.

   - Use an address in the range allocated for the :ref:`HostSubnet <k8s-openshift-hostsubnet>` created earlier.
     **This ensures that all VXLAN traffic is correctly routed via the** :code:`openshift_vxlan` **tunnel.** [#ossdn]_
   - Assign a subnet mask that matches that of the OpenShift SDN cluster network. In OpenShift Origin 1.4, for example, the default is ``/14``.

     .. tip::

        When creating a self IP using the BIG-IP configuration utility, specify the full netmask (for example, :code:`255.252.0.0`).

   - If you don't specify a traffic group, the self IP uses the BIG-IP system's default.

   .. code-block:: console

      admin@BIG-IP(cfg-sync Standalone)(Active)(/Common)(tmos)$ create net self 10.129.2.10/14 allow-service all vlan openshift_vxlan


Next Steps
----------

- :ref:`Install the F5 BIG-IP Controller in Openshift <install-kctlr-openshift>`
- :ref:`Configure the F5 BIG-IP Controller for use in OpenShift <kctlr-configure-openshift>`

.. rubric:: Footnotes
.. [#ossdn] See the `OpenShift SDN documentation <https://docs.openshift.org/1.4/architecture/additional_concepts/sdn.html#sdn-design-on-masters>`_.

.. _OpenShift: https://www.openshift.org/
.. _Create an OpenShift service account: https://docs.openshift.org/latest/admin_guide/service_accounts.html
.. _VXLAN profile:
.. _Self IP address: https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/tmos-routing-administration-12-1-1/5.html
.. _cluster role binding:
.. _cluster role: https://docs.openshift.org/latest/architecture/additional_concepts/authorization.html
