docs/_static/reuse/kctlr-initial-setup.rst, before:

.. important::

   You should create all |kctlr| resources in the ``kube-system`` `namespace`_ unless otherwise specified.

#. :ref:`Add your BIG-IP device to the OpenShift Cluster <bigip-openshift-setup>`.

#. `Create a new partition`_ on your BIG-IP system.

   .. note::
   
      - The |kctlr| can not manage objects in the ``/Common`` partition.
      - **[Optional]** The Controller can decorate the IP addresses it configures on the BIG-IP with a `Route Domain`_ identifier.
        You may want to use route domains if you have many applications using the same IP address space that need isolation from one another.
        After you create the partition on your BIG-IP system, you can 1) create a route domain and 2) assign the route domain as the partition's default. See `create and set a non-zero default Route Domain for a partition`_ for setup instructions.

#. :ref:`Store your BIG-IP login credentials in a Secret <secret-bigip-login>`.

#. If you need to pull the ``k8s-bigip-ctlr`` image from a private Docker registry, `store your Docker login credentials as a Secret`_.

Commit message:

Fixes #350 Add OpenShift HA docs from @kmunson1973 - updates to HA doc for OpenShift - add diagram from @mdditt2000 and more descriptive text about solution - Move multi-tenancy doc & k8s-ha doc to drafts; remove reference to f5net from iapp-variables draft - Clean up the 'add-bigip-to-openshift-sdn' doc - Remove unnecessary reuse files - Fix docs build errors - edits from review feedback

docs/_static/reuse/kctlr-initial-setup.rst, after:

#. If you want to use BIG-IP HA, `set up two or more F5 BIG-IPs in a Device Service Cluster (DSC)`_.
#. `Create a new partition`_ on your BIG-IP system.

   .. note::
   
      - The |kctlr| can not manage objects in the ``/Common`` partition.
      - **[Optional]** The Controller can decorate the IP addresses it configures on the BIG-IP with a `Route Domain`_ identifier.
        You may want to use route domains if you have many applications using the same IP address space that need isolation from one another.
        After you create the partition on your BIG-IP system, you can 1) create a route domain and 2) assign the route domain as the partition's default. See `create and set a non-zero default Route Domain for a partition`_ for setup instructions.
      - **[Optional]** If you're using a BIG-IP HA pair or cluster, sync your changes across the group.

#. :ref:`Store your BIG-IP login credentials in a Secret <secret-bigip-login>`.
#. If you need to pull the ``k8s-bigip-ctlr`` image from a private Docker registry, `store your Docker login credentials as a Secret`_.
